Bug 1956496: Openstack SRIOV docs (#4718)
openshift/installer: docs/user/openstack/deploy_sriov_workers.md

# Installing With SR-IOV Compute Nodes

## Table of Contents

- [Pre-Install Requirements](#pre-install-requirements)
- [Deploying an OpenShift Control Plane using IPI](#deploying-an-openshift-control-plane-using-ipi)
- [Deploying an OpenShift Control Plane using UPI](#deploying-an-openshift-control-plane-using-upi)
- [Preparing your OpenShift Cluster to use SR-IOV Networks](#preparing-your-openshift-cluster-to-use-sr-iov-networks)
- [Creating SR-IOV Networks for Compute Machines](#creating-sr-iov-networks-for-compute-machines)
- [Creating SR-IOV Compute Nodes in IPI](#creating-sr-iov-compute-nodes-in-ipi)
- [Creating SR-IOV Compute Nodes in UPI](#creating-sr-iov-compute-nodes-in-upi)

> 

Reviewer: Add sriov operator and performance operator section

## Preparing your OpenShift Cluster to use SR-IOV Networks

Once your OpenShift control plane is running, you will need to install the SR-IOV Network Operator. To do so, you will need access to an account on your OpenShift cluster with `cluster-admin` privileges. Once you are logged into that account, follow [these steps](sriov-operator) to install the Operator.

## Creating SR-IOV Networks for Compute Machines

The SR-IOV networks that are attached to compute nodes need to be created before creating the nodes. Please reference the example of how to create radio and uplink provider networks in OpenStack.

```sh
# Create Networks
openstack network create radio --provider-physical-network radio --provider-network-type vlan --provider-segment 120
openstack network create uplink --provider-physical-network uplink --provider-network-type vlan --external

# Create Subnets
openstack subnet create --network radio --subnet-range <radio_network_subnet_range> radio
openstack subnet create --network uplink --subnet-range <uplink_network_subnet_range> uplink
```

## Creating SR-IOV Compute Nodes in IPI

TODO

## Creating SR-IOV Compute Nodes in UPI

> Since we largely leave UPI implementation up to the customer, there is no official script for deploying SR-IOV compute nodes. However, we will use a verified example based on the [compute-nodes.yaml](../../../upi/openstack/compute-nodes.yaml) script to walk you through the process. To use this script, open up a terminal to the location of `inventory.yaml` and `common.yaml` UPI Ansible scrpits. In the example below, we add the provider networks named `radio` and `uplink` that we created before to the `inventory.yaml` file. Note that the count parameter specifies the number of virtual functions (VFs) to attach to each worker node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since we largely leave UPI implementation up to the customer, there is no official script for deploying SR-IOV compute nodes. However, we will use a verified example based on the [compute-nodes.yaml](../../../upi/openstack/compute-nodes.yaml) script to walk you through the process. To use this script, open up a terminal to the location of `inventory.yaml` and `common.yaml` UPI Ansible scripts. In the example below, we add the provider networks named `radio` and `uplink` that we created before to the `inventory.yaml` file. Note that the count parameter specifies the number of virtual functions (VFs) to attach to each worker node.
```

```yaml
....
# If this value is non-empty, the corresponding floating IP will be
# attached to the bootstrap machine. This is needed for collecting logs
# in case of install failure.
    os_bootstrap_fip: '203.0.113.20'

    additionalNetworks:
    - id: radio
    count: 4
    type: direct
    port_security_enabled: no
    - id: uplink
    count: 4
    type: direct
    port_security_enabled: no
```

> Next, replace the contents of `compute-nodes.yaml` with this script.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, replace the contents of `compute-nodes.yaml` with this script:
```

> ```yaml

Reviewer 2: If you're talking full playbooks, here, would it make sense to check them into source control as their own files? Not a suggestion--open question.

Author: I am kinda at an impasse on what to do about these scripts. The problem with automating things in UPI is that it duplicates engineering effort and maintenance requirements. I am trying to avoid that as much as possible, but it seems like its unavoidable here. We could direct them here: https://github.com/shiftstack/SRIOV-Compute-Nodes-Ansible-Automation

Reviewer 2: I discussed w/Aaron getting those QEed and tied to particular releases like the other playbooks are, but that's all kind of secondary to just getting the content published downstream, now. 🙃 

Ideally, IMO, they should be handled just like any of the other UPI playbooks.

Author: kk, I'll bring it up with the team and see if we can come to an agreement on how we want to maintain them

Reviewer 2: Thanks!

      security_groups: "{{ item.1.security_groups | default(omit) }}"
    with_nested:
      - "{{ worker_list }}"
      - "{{ port_name_list }}"

  # Tag the ports with the cluster info
  - name: 'Set additionalNetworks ports tag'
    command:
      cmd: "openstack port set --tag {{ cluster_id_tag }} {{ item.0 }}-{{ item.1.name }}"
    with_nested:
      - "{{ worker_list }}"
      - "{{ port_name_list }}"

  # Build the nic list to use for server create
  - name: Build nic list
    set_fact:
      nic_list: "{{ nic_list | default([]) + [ item.name ] }}"
    with_items: "{{ port_name_list }}"

  # Create the servers
  - name: 'Create the Compute servers'
    vars:
      worker_nics: "{{ [ item.1 ] | product(nic_list) | map('join','-') | map('regex_replace', '(.*)', 'port-name=\\1') | list }}"
    os_server:
      name: "{{ item.1 }}"
      image: "{{ os_image_rhcos }}"
      flavor: "{{ os_flavor_worker }}"
      auto_ip: no
      userdata: "{{ lookup('file', 'worker.ign') | string }}"
      security_groups: []
      nics:  "{{ [ 'port-name=' + os_port_worker + '-' + item.0|string ] + worker_nics }}"
      config_drive: yes
    with_indexed_items: "{{ worker_list }}"
```

> The last change you will need to make is to create a new Ansible script named `additional-ports.yaml`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The last change you will need to make is to create a new Ansible script named `additional-ports.yaml`:
```

# Expand additionalNetworks by the count parameter in each network definition
- name: ‘Build port and port index list for additionalNetworks’
  set_fact:
    port_list: "{{ port_list | default([]) + [ {
                    'net_name' : item.1.id,
                    'uuid' : network_info.results[item.0].openstack_networks[0].id,
                    'type' : item.1.type|default('normal'),
                    'security_groups' : item.1.security_groups|default(omit),
                    'port_security_enabled' : item.1.port_security_enabled|default(omit)
                    } ] * item.1.count|default(1) }}"
    index_list: "{{ index_list | default([]) + range(item.1.count|default(1)) | list }}"
  with_indexed_items: "{{ additionalNetworks }}"

# Calculate and save the name of the port
# The format of the name is cluster_name-worker-workerID-networkUUID(partial)-count
# i.e. fdp-nz995-worker-1-99bcd111-1
- name: ‘Calculate port name’
  set_fact:
    port_name_list: "{{ port_name_list | default([]) + [ item.1 | combine( {'name' : item.1.uuid | regex_search('([^-]+)') + '-' + index_list[item.0]|string } ) ] }}"
  with_indexed_items: "{{ port_list }}"
  when: port_list is defined
```

> Finally, you can run the `compute-nodes.yaml` script as you normally would.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, you can run the `compute-nodes.yaml` script as you normally would:
```

that require high bandwidth and low latency. If you are planning an OpenStack deployment with SR-IOV NICs enabled, refer to [the OSP 16.1 installation documentation](osp-sriov-install). Before installing, make sure that the network interface cards your OpenStack nodes are using [are supported](supported-nics) for use with SR-IOV
in OpenShift, and that your tenant has access to them.

Deploying compute nodes with SR-IOV networks is supported as a day 2, or post install, operation in the installer for both IPI and UPI workflows. Once you have verified that your OpenStack cluster can support SR-IOV in OpenShift, you can use the installation workflow of your choice to deploy an OpenShift control-plane. Only the OpenShift control-plane needs to be operational to use this feature. For clarification, SR-IOV workers can be deployed alongside regular workers without issue, but for these examples we make the assumption that the user wants only SR-IOV compute nodes. Below, we have provided some example workflows for deploying an OpenShift control-plane.

## Deploying an OpenShift Control Plane using IPI

> To stand up only a control plane with the IPI installer, the only change that needs to be made is to scale the compute nodes to zero. This can easily be done in the install config by changing the number of replicas in the compute machine pool to zero. This minimal example will show you how to do this. Consult the [cusomization documentation](machine-pool-customizations) for more detailed information about what changes to the machinepools are available.

Reviewer: before scaling workers (compute) to zero, you have to evacuate certain services. 
See https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OSASINFRA-1991 for details. and reference on how to do this.

Author: this is before Install, so you shouldn't have to worry about any of that

## Preparing your OpenShift Cluster to use SR-IOV Networks

Once your OpenShift control plane is running, you will need to install the SR-IOV Network Operator. To do so, you will need access to an account on your OpenShift cluster with `cluster-admin` privileges. Once you are logged into that account, follow [these steps](sriov-operator) to install the Operator.

## Creating SR-IOV Networks for Compute Machines

The SR-IOV networks that are attached to compute nodes need to be created before creating the nodes. Please reference the example of how to create radio and uplink provider networks in OpenStack.

```sh
# Create Networks
openstack network create radio --provider-physical-network radio --provider-network-type vlan --provider-segment 120
openstack network create uplink --provider-physical-network uplink --provider-network-type vlan --external

# Create Subnets
openstack subnet create --network radio --subnet-range <radio_network_subnet_range> radio
openstack subnet create --network uplink --subnet-range <uplink_network_subnet_range> uplink
```

## Creating SR-IOV Compute Nodes in IPI

> 

Reviewer: It would be nice if we could start with  0 worker nodes. 
But it looks like it is not so straight forward to boot up an ipi cluster with 0 workers. 
a full section on how to boot up a 0 worker ipi control plane is probably in order

Reviewer: There is something about limitation on making the control-plane scheduable

https://github.com/openshift/installer/blob/master/docs/user/openstack/install_upi.md#make-control-plane-nodes-unschedulable

Author: I am changing the documentation to only recommend this as a post install operation on a cluster that already has a working control plane and at least the minimum recommended workers as standard VM worker nodes.

    machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machine-type: <node_role>
  name: <infrastructure_ID>-<node_role>
  namespace: openshift-machine-api
spec:
  replicas: <number_of_replicas>
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-cluster: <infrastructure_ID>
      machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machineset: <infrastructure_ID>-<node_role>
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-cluster: <infrastructure_ID>
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machine-role: <node_role>
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machine-type: <node_role>
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machineset: <infrastructure_ID>-<node_role>
    spec:
      providerSpec:
        value:
          apiVersion: openstackproviderconfig.openshift.io/v1alpha1
          cloudName: openstack
          cloudsSecret:
            name: openstack-cloud-credentials
            namespace: openshift-machine-api
          flavor: <nova_flavor>
          image: <glance_image_name_or_location>
          serverGroupID: <optional_UUID_of_server_group>
          kind: OpenstackProviderSpec
          networks:
          - subnets:

>             - id: <machines_subnet_uuid>

Reviewer: uuid?

            - filter:
                name: radio
              vnicType: direct
              portCount: 4
              portTags:
                - "sriov"
                - "radio"

>             - filter:

Reviewer: I think another network needs to be defined here with network UUID, and its own subet section?

Author: I think we have the two from the example covered: radio, and uplink

                name: uplink
              vnicType: direct
              portCount: 4
              portTags:
                - "sriov"
                - "uplink"
          primarySubnet: <machines_subnet_uuid>
          securityGroups:
          - filter: {}
            name: <infrastructure_ID>-<node_role>
          serverMetadata:
            Name: <infrastructure_ID>-<node_role>
            openshiftClusterID: <infrastructure_ID>
          tags:
          - openshiftClusterID=<infrastructure_ID>

>           trunk: true

Reviewer: Trunked? what effect does it have? 
this will cause the ports to be trunked when created. is that what we want?

Author: I should remove this, that was leftover from the example I coppied the config from

Author: We actually need to set trunks to false!

# Installing With SR-IOV Compute Nodes

## Table of Contents

- [Pre-Install Requirements](#pre-install-requirements)
- [Preparing your OpenShift Cluster to use SR-IOV Networks](#preparing-your-openshift-cluster-to-use-sr-iov-networks)
- [Creating SR-IOV Networks for Compute Machines](#creating-sr-iov-networks-for-compute-machines)
- [Creating SR-IOV Compute Nodes in IPI](#creating-sr-iov-compute-nodes-in-ipi)
- [Creating SR-IOV Compute Nodes in UPI](#creating-sr-iov-compute-nodes-in-upi)

> ## Pre-Install Requirements

Reviewer: Pre-install requirements should probably just be a bulleted list. 
No need to sale the feature here. The user is already using it, thus the reason they are looking at the manual.

Author: This is just copy paste from downstream

Reviewer 2: Where downstream?

Reviewer 2: @iamemilio ^^^ Not sure how much of this is current. I couldn't find much of it in the latest downstream preview.

Using single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) networking as an additional network in OpenShift can be beneficial for applications

> that require high bandwidth and low latency. If you are planning an OpenStack deployment with SR-IOV NICs enabled, refer to [the OSP 16.1 installation documentation](osp-sriov-install). Before installing, make sure that the network interface cards your OpenStack nodes are using [are supported](supported-nics) for use with SR-IOV

Reviewer: No need to sale the feature here. The user is already coming to look how to do it, so they are probably using it.

in OpenShift, and that your tenant has access to them.

> Deploying compute nodes with SR-IOV networks is supported as a day 2, or post install, operation in the installer for both IPI and UPI workflows. Once you have verified that your OpenStack cluster can support SR-IOV in OpenShift, and have succesfully installed an OpenShift cluster that meets the [minimum requirements](README.md#openstack-requirements), you can follow these steps and example workflows to create compute nodes with SR-IOV NICs.

Reviewer: This looks more like an intro than a requirements list. 
"day 2" is a technical slang, just use "post install"

Author: there are instructions in one of the links I reference

> 

Reviewer: The predeployed requirements should probably be a bulleted list.

> ## Preparing your OpenShift Cluster to use SR-IOV Networks

Reviewer: this is another section that migth benefit from just being a list (either bulleted or step #)

Once your OpenShift control plane is running, you will need to install the SR-IOV Network Operator. To do so, you will need access to an account on your OpenShift cluster with `cluster-admin` privileges. Once you are logged into that account, follow [these steps](sriov-operator) to install the Operator.

> Next, you will need to create a machine config that enables the SR-IOV operator to get the UUID of networks from OpenStack. This machine config will allow the OpenStack metadata service to be available as a mountable drive.

Reviewer: Drop the "next". each one of this paragraphs should perhaps be a bullet point.

```yaml
kind: MachineConfig
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
metadata:
  name: 20-mount-config
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: worker
spec:
  osImageURL: ''
  config:
    ignition:
      version: 2.2.0
    systemd:
      units:
        - name: create-mountpoint-var-config.service
          enabled: true
          contents: |
            [Unit]
            Description=Create mountpoint /var/config
            Before=kubelet.service

            [Service]
            ExecStart=/bin/mkdir -p /var/config

            [Install]
            WantedBy=var-config.mount

        - name: var-config.mount
          enabled: true
          contents: |
            [Unit]
            Before=local-fs.target
            [Mount]
            Where=/var/config
            What=/dev/disk/by-label/config-2
            [Install]
            WantedBy=local-fs.target
```

> You can apply a machine config to your machine pool that enables the No-IOMMU feature for the Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP) virtual function I/O (VFIO) driver. The RHOSP vfio-pci driver requires this feature.

Reviewer: drop the "you can apply" and just use apply, unless enabling the no-IOMMU is optional.

Author: I copy pasted this directly from the downstream actually. @atyronesmith do you know if this is optional?

```yaml
kind: MachineConfig
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
metadata:
  name: 99-vfio-noiommu
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: worker
spec:
  osImageURL: ''
  config:
    ignition:
      version: 2.2.0
    storage:
      files:
      - filesystem: root
        path: "/etc/modprobe.d/vfio-noiommu.conf"
        contents:
          source: data:text/plain;charset=utf-8;base64,b3B0aW9ucyB2ZmlvIGVuYWJsZV91bnNhZmVfbm9pb21tdV9tb2RlPTEK
          verification: {}
        mode: 0644

> ```

Reviewer: do we need to also need to Enabling the RHOSP metadata service as a mountable drive ? 
(https://deploy-preview-28315--osdocs.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/installing/installing_openstack/installing-openstack-user-sr-iov.html#networking-osp-enabling-metadata_installing-openstack-user-sr-iov)

Author: yes, I believe we do.

If you need to configure your deployment for real-time running or low latency, see the [performance addon operator documentation](perfocmance-addon-operator).

## Creating SR-IOV Networks for Compute Machines

> The SR-IOV networks that are attached to compute nodes need to be created before creating the nodes. Please reference the example of how to create radio and uplink provider networks in OpenStack.

Reviewer: use workers not "compute nodes" or "nodes" to be  consistent.

Author: I should clarify that. I use radio and uplink as examples throughout the doc just to keep the examples consistent and easy to follow.

```sh
# Create Networks
openstack network create radio --provider-physical-network radio --provider-network-type vlan --provider-segment 120
openstack network create uplink --provider-physical-network uplink --provider-network-type vlan --external

# Create Subnets
openstack subnet create --network radio --subnet-range <radio_network_subnet_range> radio
openstack subnet create --network uplink --subnet-range <uplink_network_subnet_range> uplink
```

> ## Creating SR-IOV Compute Nodes in IPI

Reviewer: workers not compute (or change workers to compute elsewhere)

Creating compute nodes as a post-install operation in IPI is handled by the machine-api. To create a new set of compute nodes in the machine-api, you will need to [create a new machineSet in OpenShift](openstack-machine-sets). Note that it is much easier to copy the existing machineSet and edit the duplicate than to create one from scratch.

> 

Reviewer: drop the last sentence about it being easier to copy, is really not needed.

```sh
oc get machineset -n openshift-machine-api <machineset_name> -o yaml > sriov_machineset.yaml
```

> When editing an existing machineSet, or a copy of one, to create SR-IOV compute nodes, add each subnet configured for SR-IOV to the machineSet's `providerSpec`. The example below will attach ports from the `radio` and `uplink` subnets, from the previous example, to all the compute nodes in the machineSet. The `nicType` needs to be set to `direct`, and the `portSecurity` needs to be set to `false` for all subnets that are using SR-IOV. The number of ports to attach for a given subnet or network is specified by setting `portCount`. For the sake of example, we attach four ports for each SR-IOV subnet on every machine. The tags added to the `portTags` list will be added to any port attached to machines from a given subnet or network. In this example, all ports attached to machines from the `radio` subnet will get the "sriov" and "radio" tags added to them, and all ports attached to machiens from the `uplink` subnet will get the "sriov" and "uplink" tags added to them. Lastly, be sure to set `trunk: false` since trunking is not supported with SR-IOV at this time.

Reviewer: Another place where a list of actions is probably best. 
something like: 
the new sriov worker machineset should include the following in the providerSpec: 
- subnets to attach to the workers. 
  - nicType: direct
  - portSecurity: false
  - portCount: 
  - portTag
- trunk: false

Then explain in a sentence or two what it does.

  name: <infrastructure_ID>-<node_role>
  namespace: openshift-machine-api
spec:
  replicas: <number_of_replicas>
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-cluster: <infrastructure_ID>
      machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machineset: <infrastructure_ID>-<node_role>
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-cluster: <infrastructure_ID>
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machine-role: <node_role>
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machine-type: <node_role>
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machineset: <infrastructure_ID>-<node_role>
    spec:
      providerSpec:
        value:
          apiVersion: openstackproviderconfig.openshift.io/v1alpha1
          cloudName: openstack
          cloudsSecret:
            name: openstack-cloud-credentials
            namespace: openshift-machine-api
          flavor: <nova_flavor>
          image: <glance_image_name_or_location>
          serverGroupID: <optional_UUID_of_server_group>
          kind: OpenstackProviderSpec
          networks:
          - subnets:
            - uuid: <machines_subnet_uuid>

>             - filter:

Reviewer: the "-" here makes this two subnets. 
one with uuid <machines_subnet_uuid>  and no other properties
and one defined by the filter (name radio) with all the properties. 
is that what is intended?

Author: Yes, the SR-IOV workers should still be attached to the machinesSubnet as their primary subnet. At least, that is the easiest way to deploy them, and the way we documented deploying them for UPI in 4.7.

                name: radio
              vnicType: direct
              portCount: 4
              portSecurity: false
              portTags:
                - "sriov"
                - "radio"
            - filter:
                name: uplink
              vnicType: direct
              portCount: 4
              portSecurity: false
              portTags:
                - "sriov"
                - "uplink"
          primarySubnet: <machines_subnet_uuid>
          securityGroups:
          - filter: {}
            name: <infrastructure_ID>-<node_role>
          serverMetadata:
            Name: <infrastructure_ID>-<node_role>
            openshiftClusterID: <infrastructure_ID>
          tags:
          - openshiftClusterID=<infrastructure_ID>
          trunk: false
          userDataSecret:
            name: <node_role>-user-data
          availabilityZone: <optional_openstack_availability_zone>
```

Once you have finished editing your machineSet, upload it to your OpenShift cluster:

```sh
c create -f sriov_machineset.yaml
```

> ## Creating SR-IOV Compute Nodes in UPI

Reviewer: I still think we should clearly separate the upi and ipi workflows. Maybe put them in different sections altogether.

Author: Yeah, if there is enough of a difference, then I am in favor of it. I am still a bit fuzzy about what the IPI workflow should look like right now though.

            ExecStart=/bin/mkdir -p /var/config

            [Install]
            WantedBy=var-config.mount

        - name: var-config.mount
          enabled: true
          contents: |
            [Unit]
            Before=local-fs.target
            [Mount]
            Where=/var/config
            What=/dev/disk/by-label/config-2
            [Install]
            WantedBy=local-fs.target
```

### Enabling the No-IOMMU feature for the RHOSP VFIO driver

You can apply a machine config to your machine pool that enables the No-IOMMU feature for the Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP) virtual function I/O (VFIO) driver. The RHOSP vfio-pci driver requires this feature.

```yaml
kind: MachineConfig
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
metadata:
  name: 99-vfio-noiommu
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: worker
spec:
  osImageURL: ''
  config:
    ignition:
      version: 2.2.0
    storage:
      files:
      - filesystem: root
        path: "/etc/modprobe.d/vfio-noiommu.conf"
        contents:
          source: data:text/plain;charset=utf-8;base64,b3B0aW9ucyB2ZmlvIGVuYWJsZV91bnNhZmVfbm9pb21tdV9tb2RlPTEK
          verification: {}
        mode: 0644
```

> If you need to configure your deployment for real-time running or low latency, see the [performance addon operator documentation](perfocmance-addon-operator).

Reviewer 3: , low latency, or you plan to use a technology such as DPDK that requires the use of hugepages,

# Installing With SR-IOV Worker Nodes

## Table of Contents

- [Pre-Install Requirements](#pre-install-requirements)
- [Preparing your OpenShift Cluster to use SR-IOV Networks](#preparing-your-openshift-cluster-to-use-sr-iov-networks)
- [Creating SR-IOV Networks for Worker Nodes](#creating-sr-iov-networks-for-worker-nodes)
- [Creating SR-IOV Worker Nodes in IPI](#creating-sr-iov-worker-nodes-in-ipi)
- [Creating SR-IOV Worker Nodes in UPI](#creating-sr-iov-worker-nodes-in-upi)

## Pre-Install Requirements

Using single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) networking as an additional network in OpenShift can be beneficial for applications

> that require high bandwidth and low latency. If you are planning an OpenStack deployment with SR-IOV NICs enabled, refer to [the OSP 16.1 installation documentation](osp-sriov-install). Before installing, make sure that the network interface cards your OpenStack nodes are using [are supported](supported-nics) for use with SR-IOV

Reviewer: "single root I/O virtualization" should be capitalzed through out

Reviewer: "using networking as an additional network" doesn't sound correct.

> in OpenShift, and that your tenant has access to them. Your OpenStack cluster will also need the following requirements for each SR-IOV instance:

Reviewer: what is an "SR-IOV instance"?

- An instance from the RHOSP quota
- Two ports from the RHOSP quota
- A flavor with at least 16 GB memory, 4 vCPUs, and 25 GB storage space

Additionally, for clusters that use single-root input/output virtualization (SR-IOV), RHOSP compute nodes require a flavor that supports [huge pages](huge-pages).

> Deploying worker nodes with SR-IOV networks is supported as a post install operation in the installer for both IPI and UPI workflows. Once you have verified that your OpenStack cluster can support SR-IOV in OpenShift, and have succesfully installed an OpenShift cluster that meets the [minimum requirements](README.md#openstack-requirements), you can follow these steps and example workflows to create worker nodes with SR-IOV NICs.

Reviewer: "operation in the installer" ?

> 

Reviewer: "You can follow the steps in this example workflow"

Author: Let me simplify it to "these steps and examples"

## Preparing your OpenShift Cluster to use SR-IOV Networks

Before you use single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) on a cluster that runs on Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP), make the RHOSP metadata service mountable as a drive and enable the No-IOMMU Operator for the virtual function I/O (VFIO) driver.

### Enabling the RHOSP metadata service as a mountable drive

> Next, you will need to create a machine config that enables the SR-IOV operator to get the UUID of networks from OpenStack. This machine config will allow the OpenStack metadata service to be available as a mountable drive.

Reviewer: Drop "Next,"

> Next, you will need to create a machine config that enables the SR-IOV operator to get the UUID of networks from OpenStack. This machine config will allow the OpenStack metadata service to be available as a mountable drive.

Reviewer: "worker machineconfig" I think this changes have to be made to the machine config describing the workers right?  its obvious, but best to spell it out.

Author: no, its actually its own machine config that is attached to the worker machinepool definition

```yaml
kind: MachineConfig
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
metadata:
  name: 20-mount-config
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: worker
spec:
  osImageURL: ''
  config:
    ignition:
      version: 2.2.0
    systemd:
      units:
        - name: create-mountpoint-var-config.service
          enabled: true
          contents: |
            [Unit]
            Description=Create mountpoint /var/config
            Before=kubelet.service

            [Service]
            ExecStart=/bin/mkdir -p /var/config

            [Install]
            WantedBy=var-config.mount

        - name: var-config.mount
          enabled: true
          contents: |
            [Unit]
            Before=local-fs.target
            [Mount]
            Where=/var/config
            What=/dev/disk/by-label/config-2
            [Install]
            WantedBy=local-fs.target
```

### Enabling the No-IOMMU feature for the RHOSP VFIO driver

> You can apply a machine config to your machine pool that enables the No-IOMMU feature for the Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP) virtual function I/O (VFIO) driver. The RHOSP vfio-pci driver requires this feature.

Reviewer: "your worker machine pool" 
also drop the "you can"

Reviewer: is the "vfio-pci" driver the same things as the "RHOSP VFIO driver"?
if so, the paragraph can be made into one. by just chanfing "for the Red Hat", to "required by the Red Hat"

Author: will need @atyronesmith 's wisdom to answer that

Reviewer 3: Wisdom?  :).     The MachineConfig enables the noiommu functionality for the vfio-pci driver inside the worker VM.  This is in the openshift space, not in OpenStack.

```yaml
kind: MachineConfig
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
metadata:
  name: 99-vfio-noiommu
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: worker
spec:
  osImageURL: ''
  config:
    ignition:
      version: 2.2.0
    storage:
      files:
      - filesystem: root
        path: "/etc/modprobe.d/vfio-noiommu.conf"
        contents:

>           source: data:text/plain;charset=utf-8;base64,b3B0aW9ucyB2ZmlvIGVuYWJsZV91bnNhZmVfbm9pb21tdV9tb2RlPTEK

Reviewer: This data says: 
"options vfio enable_unsafe_noiommu_mode=1" 
maybe we should put that somewhere

Author: I am not sure what you are referencing?

Reviewer 3: The MachineConfig creates the vfio-noiommu.conf file with the contents:

options vfio enable_unsafe_noiommu_mode=1

Maybe steal an explanation from the dpdk docs...

Linux kernel >= 4.5 and DPDK 16.04 support a new VFIO mode which allows VFIO to be used without IOMMU. While this is just as unsafe as using UIO, it does make it possible to use VFIO in situations where IOMMU is not available and uio_pci_generic does not work either, such as virtual hosts.

The no-IOMMU mode is off by default and must be specifically enabled.

[dpdk](https://dpdk-guide.gitlab.io/dpdk-guide/setup/binding.html
)

The noiommu option will need to be used until the G35 version of QEMU is included with OpenStack.  However, this is a detail probably not needed by the customer?

          verification: {}
        mode: 0644

> ```

Reviewer: Hey can we add this to the "openshift/" folder right after "openshift-installer create manifests" and before "openshift-installer create cluster"?

Author: possibly? but I am not sure if this release is the right time to be thinking about this

Reviewer 3: Yes.  This manifest can be added in the suggested sequence.

Author: I am wondering how much of this can be fully automated in upcoming IPI releases. My guess is most of it can, but I am not sure about the operator installation part.

Reviewer 3: One option might be when selecting the OpenStack platform, automatically include the two manifests in the create manifests step.

Once your OpenShift control plane is running, you will need to install the SR-IOV Network Operator. To do so, you will need access to an account on your OpenShift cluster with `cluster-admin` privileges. Once you are logged into that account, follow [these steps](sriov-operator) to install the Operator. Then, [configure your SR-IOV network device](configure-sriov-network-device).

## Creating SR-IOV Networks for Worker Nodes

The SR-IOV networks that are attached to worker nodes need to be created before creating the nodes. Please reference the example of how to create radio and uplink provider networks in OpenStack.

```sh
# Create Networks
openstack network create radio --provider-physical-network radio --provider-network-type vlan --provider-segment 120
openstack network create uplink --provider-physical-network uplink --provider-network-type vlan --external

# Create Subnets
openstack subnet create --network radio --subnet-range <radio_network_subnet_range> radio
openstack subnet create --network uplink --subnet-range <uplink_network_subnet_range> uplink

> ```

Reviewer: It would be nice if we could create this thorugh the openshift cluster (through yaml file or something) I guess for future enhancent

Author: +1 lets wait for the upstream CAPO merge to consider that

## Creating SR-IOV Worker Nodes in IPI

Creating worker nodes as a post-install operation in IPI is handled by the machine-api. To create a new set of worker nodes in the machine-api, you will need to [create a new machineSet in OpenShift](openstack-machine-sets).

```sh
oc get machineset -n openshift-machine-api <machineset_name> -o yaml > sriov_machineset.yaml
```

> When editing an existing machineSet, or a copy of one, to create SR-IOV worker nodes, add each subnet configured for SR-IOV to the machineSet's `providerSpec`. The example below will attach ports from the `radio` and `uplink` subnets, from the previous example, to all the worker nodes in the machineSet. For all SR-IOV ports, always set:

Reviewer: This section needs to be reworded with the new method under the "port"  section of providerSpec

 - `nicType: direct`
 - `portSecurity:false`

> Lastly, be sure to set `trunk: false` in the machineconfig since trunking is not supported with SR-IOV at this time. Note that you can not have any security groups or allowedAddressPairs in your port definition when disabling `portSecurity`. The values of `portSecurity` will be inherited from the network definition by all subnets unless set in the subnet definition. If `portTags` are set on the network, they will be appended to any `portTags` set on a subnet.

Reviewer: drop "lastly"

Reviewer: This needs to be reworded to reflect the new "port" section under providerSpecs:

# Installing With SR-IOV Worker Nodes

## Table of Contents

> - [Pre-Install Requirements](#pre-install-requirements)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
```

- [Preparing your OpenShift Cluster to use SR-IOV Networks](#preparing-your-openshift-cluster-to-use-sr-iov-networks)
- [Creating SR-IOV Networks for Worker Nodes](#creating-sr-iov-networks-for-worker-nodes)
- [Creating SR-IOV Worker Nodes in IPI](#creating-sr-iov-worker-nodes-in-ipi)
- [Creating SR-IOV Worker Nodes in UPI](#creating-sr-iov-worker-nodes-in-upi)

> ## Pre-Install Requirements

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

> Using Single Root I/O Virtualization (SR-IOV) networking in OpenShift can be beneficial for applications

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Single Root I/O Virtualization (SR-IOV) networking in OpenShift can benefit applications
```

> that require high bandwidth and low latency. If you are planning an OpenStack deployment with SR-IOV NICs enabled, refer to [the OSP 16.1 installation documentation](osp-sriov-install). Before installing, make sure that the network interface cards your OpenStack nodes are using [are supported](supported-nics) for use with SR-IOV

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that require high bandwidth and low latency. To plan an OpenStack deployment that uses SR-IOV network interface cards (NICs), refer to [the OSP 16.1 installation documentation](osp-sriov-install). Before you install an OpenShift cluster on OpenStack, make sure that the NICs that your OpenStack nodes use [are supported](supported-nics)
```

> in OpenShift, and that your tenant has access to them. Your OpenStack cluster will also need the following requirements for each instance with an attached SR-IOV NIC:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in OpenShift, and that your tenant has access to them. Your OpenStack cluster must also meet following requirements for each instance that has an attached SR-IOV NIC:
```

> - An instance from the RHOSP quota

Reviewer 2: "One" or "an?"

> - One Port attached to the machines subnet

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- One port attached to the machines subnet
```

> - One port for each SR-IOV NIC

Author: ```suggestion
- One port for each SR-IOV Virtual Function
```
Is it for each NIC or for each VF

Author: @atyronesmith

Reviewer 3: A port for each SR-IOV VF.

- A flavor with at least 16 GB memory, 4 vCPUs, and 25 GB storage space

> Additionally, for clusters that use single-root input/output virtualization (SR-IOV), RHOSP compute nodes require a flavor that supports [huge pages](huge-pages).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For all clusters that use single-root input/output virtualization (SR-IOV), RHOSP compute nodes require a flavor that supports [huge pages](huge-pages).
```

> Additionally, for clusters that use single-root input/output virtualization (SR-IOV), RHOSP compute nodes require a flavor that supports [huge pages](huge-pages).

Author: @atyronesmith do all instances that have SR-IOV NICs attached need huge pages support in their flavors? If so, I will move this up to the bulleted pre-requisite list because its easier to understand that way.

Reviewer 3: I would move it up.  The majority of use cases will require hugepages.

> Deploying worker nodes with SR-IOV networks is supported as a post install operation for both IPI and UPI workflows. Once you have verified that your OpenStack cluster can support SR-IOV in OpenShift, and have succesfully installed an OpenShift cluster that meets the [minimum requirements](README.md#openstack-requirements), you can follow these steps and examples to create worker nodes with SR-IOV NICs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Deploying worker nodes with SR-IOV networks is supported as a post-install operation for both IPI and UPI workflows. After you verify that your OpenStack cluster can support SR-IOV in OpenShift and you install an OpenShift cluster that meets the [minimum requirements](README.md#openstack-requirements), use the following steps and examples to create worker nodes with SR-IOV NICs.
```

## Preparing your OpenShift Cluster to use SR-IOV Networks

Before you use single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) on a cluster that runs on Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP), make the RHOSP metadata service mountable as a drive and enable the No-IOMMU Operator for the virtual function I/O (VFIO) driver.

### Enabling the RHOSP metadata service as a mountable drive

> Create a machine config in your worker machine pool that enables the SR-IOV operator to get the UUID of networks from OpenStack by making the OpenStack metadata service to be available as a mountable drive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a machine config in your worker machine pool that makes the OpenStack metadata service available as a mountable drive. This machine config enables the SR-IOV operator to get the UUID of networks from OpenStack.
```

            [Service]
            ExecStart=/bin/mkdir -p /var/config

            [Install]
            WantedBy=var-config.mount

        - name: var-config.mount
          enabled: true
          contents: |
            [Unit]
            Before=local-fs.target
            [Mount]
            Where=/var/config
            What=/dev/disk/by-label/config-2
            [Install]
            WantedBy=local-fs.target
```

### Enabling the No-IOMMU feature for the RHOSP VFIO driver

Apply a machine config to your worker machine pool that enables the No-IOMMU feature for the Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP) virtual function I/O (VFIO) driver.

```yaml
kind: MachineConfig
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
metadata:
  name: 99-vfio-noiommu
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: worker
spec:
  osImageURL: ''
  config:
    ignition:
      version: 2.2.0
    storage:
      files:
      - filesystem: root
        path: "/etc/modprobe.d/vfio-noiommu.conf"
        contents:
          source: data:text/plain;charset=utf-8;base64,b3B0aW9ucyB2ZmlvIGVuYWJsZV91bnNhZmVfbm9pb21tdV9tb2RlPTEK
          verification: {}
        mode: 0644
```

> If you need to configure your deployment for real-time running or low latency, see the [performance addon operator documentation](performance-addon-operator), or you plan to use a technology such as DPDK that requires the use of [hugepages](huge-pages-perf-addon).

Reviewer 2: Not sure about this. Rephrase?

> Once your OpenShift control plane is running, you will need to install the SR-IOV Network Operator. To do so, you will need access to an account on your OpenShift cluster with `cluster-admin` privileges. Once you are logged into that account, follow [these steps](sriov-operator) to install the Operator. Then, [configure your SR-IOV network device](configure-sriov-network-device).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After your OpenShift control plane is running, you must install the SR-IOV Network Operator. 

To install the Operator, you will need access to an account on your OpenShift cluster that has `cluster-admin` privileges. After you log in to the account, [install the Operator](sriov-operator). Then, [configure your SR-IOV network device](configure-sriov-network-device).
```

## Creating SR-IOV Networks for Worker Nodes

> The SR-IOV networks that are attached to worker nodes need to be created before creating the nodes. Please reference the example of how to create radio and uplink provider networks in OpenStack.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You must create SR-IOV networks to attach to worker nodes before you create the nodes.  Reference the following example of how to create radio and uplink provider networks in OpenStack:
```

```sh
# Create Networks
openstack network create radio --provider-physical-network radio --provider-network-type vlan --provider-segment 120
openstack network create uplink --provider-physical-network uplink --provider-network-type vlan --external

# Create Subnets
openstack subnet create --network radio --subnet-range <radio_network_subnet_range> radio
openstack subnet create --network uplink --subnet-range <uplink_network_subnet_range> uplink
```

## Creating SR-IOV Worker Nodes in IPI

> Creating worker nodes as a post-install operation in IPI is handled by the machine-api. To create a new set of worker nodes in the machine-api, you will need to [create a new machineSet in OpenShift](openstack-machine-sets).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can create worker nodes as a post-IPI-install operation by using the machine API. 

To create a new set of worker nodes, [create a new machineSet in OpenShift](openstack-machine-sets).
```

```sh
oc get machineset -n openshift-machine-api <machineset_name> -o yaml > sriov_machineset.yaml
```

> When editing an existing machineSet, or a copy of one, to create SR-IOV worker nodes, add each subnet configured for SR-IOV to the machineSet's `providerSpec`. The example below will attach ports from the `radio` and `uplink` subnets, from the previous example, to all the worker nodes in the machineSet. For all SR-IOV ports, always set:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When editing an existing machineSet (or a copy of one) to create SR-IOV worker nodes, add each subnet that is configured for SR-IOV to the machineSet's `providerSpec`. The following example attaches ports from the `radio` and `uplink` subnets, which were created in the previous example, to all of the worker nodes in the machineSet. For all SR-IOV ports, you must set the following parameters:
```

 - `nicType: direct`
 - `portSecurity:false`

> Set `trunk: false` in the machineconfig since trunking is not supported with SR-IOV at this time. Any ports that will be used with SR-IOV must have `portSecurity:false` and `vnicType: direct`. Note that security groups or allowedAddressPairs can not be set on a port when `portSecurity` is disabled. The port's name will be `<machine-name>-<nameSuffix>`, and the `nameSuffix` is required field in the port definition. Tags can optionally be added to ports by adding them to the `tags` list. The example below shows how a machineset can be created to create SR-IOV capable ports on the `Radio` and `Uplink` networks and subnets we defined in a previous example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because trunking is not supported with SR-IOV, set `trunk: false` in the machine config. Any ports that are used with SR-IOV must have `portSecurity:false` and `vnicType: direct`. 

Note that security groups or allowedAddressPairs can not be set on a port if `portSecurity` is disabled. The name of the port will be `<machine-name>-<nameSuffix>`, and the `nameSuffix` is required field in the port definition. 

Optionally, you can add tags to ports by adding them to the `tags` list. The following example shows how a machineset can be created that creates SR-IOV capable ports on the `Radio` and `Uplink` networks and subnets that were defined in a previous example:
```

    machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machine-type: <node_role>
  name: <infrastructure_ID>-<node_role>
  namespace: openshift-machine-api
spec:
  replicas: <number_of_replicas>
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-cluster: <infrastructure_ID>
      machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machineset: <infrastructure_ID>-<node_role>
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-cluster: <infrastructure_ID>
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machine-role: <node_role>
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machine-type: <node_role>
        machine.openshift.io/cluster-api-machineset: <infrastructure_ID>-<node_role>
    spec:
      providerSpec:
        value:
          apiVersion: openstackproviderconfig.openshift.io/v1alpha1
          cloudName: openstack
          cloudsSecret:
            name: openstack-cloud-credentials
            namespace: openshift-machine-api
          flavor: <nova_flavor>
          image: <glance_image_name_or_location>
          serverGroupID: <optional_UUID_of_server_group>
          kind: OpenstackProviderSpec
          networks:

>             subnets:

Author: ```suggestion
            - subnets:
```

            - uuid: <machines_subnet_uuid>
          ports:
            - networkID: <radio_network_uuid>
              nameSuffix: radio
              fixedIPs:
                - subnet_id: <radio_subnet_uuid>
              tags:
                - sriov
                - radio
              vnicType: direct
              portSecurity: false
            - networkID: <uplink_network_uuid>
              nameSuffix: uplink
              fixedIPs:
                - subnet_id: <uplink_subnet_uuid>
              tags:
                - sriov
                - uplink
              vnicType: direct
              portSecurity: false
          primarySubnet: <machines_subnet_uuid>
          securityGroups:
          - filter: {}
            name: <infrastructure_ID>-<node_role>
          serverMetadata:
            Name: <infrastructure_ID>-<node_role>
            openshiftClusterID: <infrastructure_ID>
          tags:
          - openshiftClusterID=<infrastructure_ID>
          trunk: false
          userDataSecret:
            name: <node_role>-user-data
          availabilityZone: <optional_openstack_availability_zone>
```

> Once you have finished editing your machineSet, upload it to your OpenShift cluster:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you finish editing your machineSet, upload it to your OpenShift cluster:
```

```sh
c create -f sriov_machineset.yaml
```

## Creating SR-IOV Worker Nodes in UPI

> Since we largely leave UPI implementation up to the customer, there is no official script for deploying SR-IOV worker nodes. However, we will use a verified example based on the [compute-nodes.yaml](../../../upi/openstack/compute-nodes.yaml) script to walk you through the process. To use this script, open up a terminal to the location of `inventory.yaml` and `common.yaml` UPI Ansible scripts. In the example below, we add the provider networks named `radio` and `uplink` that we created before to the `inventory.yaml` file. Note that the count parameter specifies the number of virtual functions (VFs) to attach to each worker node. This code can also be found on [github](https://github.com/shiftstack/SRIOV-Compute-Nodes-Ansible-Automation).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because UPI implementation depends largely on your deployment environment and requirements, there is no official script for deploying SR-IOV worker nodes. However, we can share a verified example that is based based on the [compute-nodes.yaml](../../../upi/openstack/compute-nodes.yaml) script to help you understand the process. 

To use the script, open up a terminal to the location of the `inventory.yaml` and `common.yaml` UPI Ansible scripts. In the the following example, we add provider networks named `radio` and `uplink` to the `inventory.yaml` file. 

Note that the count parameter specifies the number of virtual functions (VFs) to attach to each worker node. This code can also be found on [github](https://github.com/shiftstack/SRIOV-Compute-Nodes-Ansible-Automation).
```

```yaml
....
# If this value is non-empty, the corresponding floating IP will be
# attached to the bootstrap machine. This is needed for collecting logs
# in case of install failure.
    os_bootstrap_fip: '203.0.113.20'

    additionalNetworks:
    - id: radio
    count: 4
    type: direct
    port_security_enabled: no
    - id: uplink
    count: 4
    type: direct
    port_security_enabled: no
```

> Next, create a file called `compute-nodes.yaml` with this ansible script:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, create a file called `compute-nodes.yaml` with this Ansible script:
```

      security_groups: "{{ item.1.security_groups | default(omit) }}"
    with_nested:
      - "{{ worker_list }}"
      - "{{ port_name_list }}"

  # Tag the ports with the cluster info
  - name: 'Set additionalNetworks ports tag'
    command:
      cmd: "openstack port set --tag {{ cluster_id_tag }} {{ item.0 }}-{{ item.1.name }}"
    with_nested:
      - "{{ worker_list }}"
      - "{{ port_name_list }}"

  # Build the nic list to use for server create
  - name: Build nic list
    set_fact:
      nic_list: "{{ nic_list | default([]) + [ item.name ] }}"
    with_items: "{{ port_name_list }}"

  # Create the servers
  - name: 'Create the Compute servers'
    vars:
      worker_nics: "{{ [ item.1 ] | product(nic_list) | map('join','-') | map('regex_replace', '(.*)', 'port-name=\\1') | list }}"
    os_server:
      name: "{{ item.1 }}"
      image: "{{ os_image_rhcos }}"
      flavor: "{{ os_flavor_worker }}"
      auto_ip: no
      userdata: "{{ lookup('file', 'worker.ign') | string }}"
      security_groups: []
      nics:  "{{ [ 'port-name=' + os_port_worker + '-' + item.0|string ] + worker_nics }}"
      config_drive: yes
    with_indexed_items: "{{ worker_list }}"
```

> The last change you will need to make is to create a new Ansible script named `additional-ports.yaml`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a new Ansible script named `additional-ports.yaml`:
```

# Expand additionalNetworks by the count parameter in each network definition
- name: ‘Build port and port index list for additionalNetworks’
  set_fact:
    port_list: "{{ port_list | default([]) + [ {
                    'net_name' : item.1.id,
                    'uuid' : network_info.results[item.0].openstack_networks[0].id,
                    'type' : item.1.type|default('normal'),
                    'security_groups' : item.1.security_groups|default(omit),
                    'port_security_enabled' : item.1.port_security_enabled|default(omit)
                    } ] * item.1.count|default(1) }}"
    index_list: "{{ index_list | default([]) + range(item.1.count|default(1)) | list }}"
  with_indexed_items: "{{ additionalNetworks }}"

# Calculate and save the name of the port
# The format of the name is cluster_name-worker-workerID-networkUUID(partial)-count
# i.e. fdp-nz995-worker-1-99bcd111-1
- name: ‘Calculate port name’
  set_fact:
    port_name_list: "{{ port_name_list | default([]) + [ item.1 | combine( {'name' : item.1.uuid | regex_search('([^-]+)') + '-' + index_list[item.0]|string } ) ] }}"
  with_indexed_items: "{{ port_list }}"
  when: port_list is defined
```

> Finally, you can run the `compute-nodes.yaml` script as you normally would:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, run the `compute-nodes.yaml` script as you normally would:
```

```sh
ansible-playbook -i inventory.yaml compute-nodes.yaml
```

> Make sure to follow the documentation to [approve the CSRs](approve-csr-upi) for your worker nodes, and to [wait for the install to complete](wait-for-install-complete) to finalize your deployment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure to follow the documentation to [approve the CSRs](approve-csr-upi) for your worker nodes, and [wait for the installation to complete](wait-for-install-complete) to finalize your deployment.
```

# Installing With SR-IOV Worker Nodes

## Table of Contents

- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Preparing your OpenShift Cluster to use SR-IOV Networks](#preparing-your-openshift-cluster-to-use-sr-iov-networks)
- [Creating SR-IOV Networks for Worker Nodes](#creating-sr-iov-networks-for-worker-nodes)
- [Creating SR-IOV Worker Nodes in IPI](#creating-sr-iov-worker-nodes-in-ipi)
- [Creating SR-IOV Worker Nodes in UPI](#creating-sr-iov-worker-nodes-in-upi)

## Prerequisites

> Single Root I/O Virtualization (SR-IOV) networking in OpenShift can benefit for applications

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Single Root I/O Virtualization (SR-IOV) networking in OpenShift can benefit applications
```

Author: oops

            [Service]
            ExecStart=/bin/mkdir -p /var/config

            [Install]
            WantedBy=var-config.mount

        - name: var-config.mount
          enabled: true
          contents: |
            [Unit]
            Before=local-fs.target
            [Mount]
            Where=/var/config
            What=/dev/disk/by-label/config-2
            [Install]
            WantedBy=local-fs.target
```

### Enabling the No-IOMMU feature for the RHOSP VFIO driver

Apply a machine config to your worker machine pool that enables the No-IOMMU feature for the Red Hat OpenStack Platform (RHOSP) virtual function I/O (VFIO) driver.

```yaml
kind: MachineConfig
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
metadata:
  name: 99-vfio-noiommu
  labels:
    machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: worker
spec:
  osImageURL: ''
  config:
    ignition:
      version: 2.2.0
    storage:
      files:
      - filesystem: root
        path: "/etc/modprobe.d/vfio-noiommu.conf"
        contents:
          source: data:text/plain;charset=utf-8;base64,b3B0aW9ucyB2ZmlvIGVuYWJsZV91bnNhZmVfbm9pb21tdV9tb2RlPTEK
          verification: {}
        mode: 0644
```

> ,

Reviewer 4: trailing ","

openstack network create uplink --provider-physical-network uplink --provider-network-type vlan --external

# Create Subnets
openstack subnet create --network radio --subnet-range <radio_network_subnet_range> radio
openstack subnet create --network uplink --subnet-range <uplink_network_subnet_range> uplink
```

## Creating SR-IOV Worker Nodes in IPI

You can create worker nodes as a post-IPI-install operation by using the machine API. To create a new set of worker nodes, [create a new machineSet in OpenShift](openstack-machine-sets).

```sh
oc get machineset -n openshift-machine-api <machineset_name> -o yaml > sriov_machineset.yaml
```

When editing an existing machineSet (or a copy of one) to create SR-IOV worker nodes, add each subnet that is configured for SR-IOV to the machineSet's `providerSpec`. The following example attaches ports from the `radio` and `uplink` subnets, which were created in the previous example, to all of the worker nodes in the machineSet. For all SR-IOV ports, you must set the following parameters:

 - `nicType: direct`
 - `portSecurity:false`

> The SR-IOV Operator requires a config drive to be mounted to each instance using SRIOV VFs, so always set `configDrive: true`. Note that security groups or allowedAddressPairs can not be set on a port if `portSecurity` is disabled. If you are using a network with port security disabled, then allowed address pairs and security groups cannot be used for any port in that network. Setting security groups on the instance will apply that security group to all ports attached to it, be aware of this when using networks with port security disabled. Right now, trunking is not enabled on ports defined in the `ports` list, only the ports created by entries in the `networks` or `subnets` lists. The name of the port will be `<machine-name>-<nameSuffix>`, and the `nameSuffix` is required field in the port definition. Optionally, you can add tags to ports by adding them to the `tags` list. The following example shows how a machineset can be created that creates SR-IOV capable ports on the `Radio` and `Uplink` networks and subnets that were defined in a previous example:

Reviewer 4: s/SRIOV/SR-IOV/
I think we should be consistent with the naming.

            - networkID: <radio_network_uuid>
              nameSuffix: radio
              fixedIPs:
                - subnetID: <radio_subnet_uuid>
              tags:
                - sriov
                - radio
              vnicType: direct
              portSecurity: false
            - networkID: <uplink_network_uuid>
              nameSuffix: uplink
              fixedIPs:
                - subnetID: <uplink_subnet_uuid>
              tags:
                - sriov
                - uplink
              vnicType: direct
              portSecurity: false
          primarySubnet: <machines_subnet_uuid>
          securityGroups:
          - filter: {}
            name: <infrastructure_ID>-<node_role>
          serverMetadata:
            Name: <infrastructure_ID>-<node_role>
            openshiftClusterID: <infrastructure_ID>
          tags:
          - openshiftClusterID=<infrastructure_ID>
          trunk: false
          userDataSecret:
            name: <node_role>-user-data
          availabilityZone: <optional_openstack_availability_zone>
          configDrive: true
```

After you finish editing your machineSet, upload it to your OpenShift cluster:

```sh

> c create -f sriov_machineset.yaml

Reviewer 4: oc

```

## Creating SR-IOV Worker Nodes in UPI

> Because UPI implementation depends largely on your deployment environment and requirements, there is no official script for deploying SR-IOV worker nodes. However, we can share a verified example that is based based on the [compute-nodes.yaml](../../../upi/openstack/compute-nodes.yaml) script to help you understand the process. To use the script, open up a terminal to the location of the `inventory.yaml` and `common.yaml` UPI Ansible scripts. In the the following example, we add provider networks named `radio` and `uplink` to the `inventory.yaml` file. Note that the count parameter specifies the number of virtual functions (VFs) to attach to each worker node. This code can also be found on [github](https://github.com/shiftstack/SRIOV-Compute-Nodes-Ansible-Automation).

Reviewer 4: s/based based/based/

Reviewer 4: s/the the/the/
